Dask setup on Nebari : tutorial (#58)
nebari-dev/nebari-docs: docs/docs/tutorials/dask-nebari-setup.md

---
id: dask-nebari-setup
title: Configuring Dask on Nebari
---

# Introduction to Dask

> Working with large datasets could pose computation challenges, running into frequent memory issues is one. Dask is a free and `open-source` library for `parallel computing` in Python, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working with large datasets can pose a few challenges, running into frequent memory issues is one. [Dask](https://docs.dask.org/en/stable/) is a free and `open-source` library for `parallel computing` in Python,
```

> helps in scaling up the data science workflows leveraging efficient computation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enabling data scientist and others to use their favorite PyData tools at scale. 
```

techniques.

### Nebari & Dask integration

> Nebari uses [dask-gateway](https://gateway.dask.org/) to expose auto-scaling compute clusters automatically configured for the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nebari uses [dask-gateway](https://gateway.dask.org/) to expose auto-scaling compute clusters automatically configured for the user,
```

> Dask Gateway provides a secure way to managing dask clusters. We will discuss in detail the pre-defined configuration in later sections of this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and provides a secure way to managing dask clusters. We will discuss in detail the pre-defined configuration in later sections of this tutorial.
```

### Dask Gateway components:

- `address` : is the rest API that dask-gateway exposes for managing clusters
- `proxy_address` : is a secure TLS connection to a user defined dask scheduler

> - `auth` is the form of authentication used, which should always be jupyterhub for Nebari

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `auth` : is the form of authentication used, which should always be jupyterhub for Nebari
```

Nebari already has the connection information pre-configured for the user.
In order to view configuration details run the below command:

> - using terminal : `cat /etc/dask/gateway.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- from the terminal : `cat /etc/dask/gateway.yaml`
```

> - using notebook: `! cat /etc/dask/gateway.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- within a notebook: `! cat /etc/dask/gateway.yaml`
```

<details>
<summary> Click to view: Sample output </summary>

```shell
{"gateway":{"address":"http://qhub-dask-gateway-gateway-api.dev:8000","auth":{"type":"jupyterhub"},"proxy_address":"tcp://quansight.qhub.dev:8786","public_address":"https://quansight.qhub.dev/gateway"}}
```

</details>

### Starting a dask cluster on Nebari

We will start by creating a Jupyter notebook with name of your choice. Select `dask` environment from the select kernel dropdown (located on the top right)

Nebari has set of pre-defined options for configuring the dask profiles that we have access to. These can be accessed via Dask Gateway options.

<details>
<summary> Click to view: Dask profile options for Nebari </summary>

```python
profiles:

>   jupyterlab:
>     - display_name: Small Instance
>       description: Stable environment with 1 cpu / 1 GB ram
>       access: all
>       default: true
>       kubespawner_override:
>         cpu_limit: 1
>         cpu_guarantee: 1
>         mem_limit: 1G
>         mem_guarantee: 1G
>     - display_name: Medium Instance
>       description: Stable environment with 1.5 cpu / 2 GB ram
>       access: yaml
>       groups:
>         - admin
>         - developers
>       users:
>         - bob
>       kubespawner_override:
>         cpu_limit: 1.5
>         cpu_guarantee: 1.25
>         mem_limit: 2G
>         mem_guarantee: 2G
>     - display_name: Large Instance
>       description: Stable environment with 2 cpu / 4 GB ram
>       access: keycloak
>       kubespawner_override:
>         cpu_limit: 2
>         cpu_guarantee: 2
>         mem_limit: 4G
>         mem_guarantee: 4G

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I don't think we need to show the jupyterlab profiles here.

Author: Maybe having a link could be useful for users who want to dive deeper?

Reviewer: Could we pull this whole section out and start a new "How to configure dask gateway profiles" guide instead? See #68.

Reviewer: Then, like you said, we can link that document here :)

Author: > Could we pull this whole section out and start a new "How to configure dask gateway profiles" guide instead? See #68.

sorry unable to comprehend does by `whole section` mean *Starting a dask cluster on Nebari* sub heading?

Reviewer: The selection regarding profiles and the reference to the config yaml.

  dask_worker:
    "Small Worker":
      worker_cores_limit: 1
      worker_cores: 1
      worker_memory_limit: 1G
      worker_memory: 1G
    "Medium Worker":
      worker_cores_limit: 1.5
      worker_cores: 1.25
      worker_memory_limit: 2G
      worker_memory: 2G
```

</details>

**Accessing cluster options**

```python
from dask_gateway import Gateway
gateway = Gateway()

options = gateway.cluster_options()
options
```

> Once the `ipywidget` shows up we can customise as per our requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the `ipywidget` shows up, we can customize our cluster.
```

![Cluster Options](/img/cluster_options.png)

:::note
It’s important that the environment used for your notebook matches the dask worker environment.
:::

**Creating a dask cluster**

```python
cluster = gateway.new_cluster(options)
cluster
```

> We have the option to choose between `manual` scaling and `adaptive` scaling, the benchmarking stats would be

Reviewer: Hey @sayantikabanik, what benchmarking stats is this in reference to?

Author: I was referring to the user's existing benchmarking stats.
> For example: 

Given any program (DS workflow) comprising heavy components/ETLs have some benchmarking already performed. Max load/Min load, memory, compute etc

useful here to decide the right set of configuration.
Starting with the lowest possible configuration could be another helpful strategy.

![Creating a Cluster](/img/cluster_creation.png)

<details>
<summary> Click on the dashboard URL to view Dask UI: Sample info </summary>

![Dask UI resource utilisation](/img/dask_UI.png)

</details>

**Calling dask client to get started**

```python

client = cluster.get_client()
client
```

<details>
<summary> Click to view sample output: Dask client </summary>

![dask client](/img/dask_client.png)

</details>

**Fun part, let's code with dask**

```python
import dask.array as da
x = da.random.random((10000, 10000), chunks=(1000, 1000))
y = x + x.T
z = y[::2, 5000:].mean(axis=1)
z.compute()
```

<details>
<summary> Click to view sample output: Dask compute </summary>

```shell
array([0.99628925, 0.99659686, 1.00412466, ..., 0.99887597, 1.00219302,
       1.0027488 ])
```

</details>

### Dask diagnostic UI

![dask diagnostic UI](/img/dask_diagostic_UI.png)

### Conclusion

Kudos ✨, we now have a working dask cluster inside Nebari.

> Excellent to get started with those large datasets.

Reviewer 2: Need to include shutting down the cluster. This is why I'd like to show how we can use a context manager to handle the cluster ([like this](https://gist.github.com/kcpevey/3a9a94ca741decd180c08570a721a9c0)).

Should we show both approaches or just include the context manager here?

Reviewer: I think there is some benefit to showing the "manual" approach. Perhaps we could add a note or something towards the bottom that makes a recommendation to use a context manager. 
Something like: 
"Wrapping the dask-gateway in a context manager, like this, is a great way to avoid having to write a lot of boilerplate, with the added benefit that it will ensure the cluster is fully shutdown once it's finished being used."

Author: should I add a separate section for the manual approach using `context manager`? 
Or just the recommendation at the end with the `sample code` ?

Author: Currently, I have added the `recommendation` with the code snippet. Happy to make any additional tweaks

Reviewer: In the same code snippet, could we include the same example from above but being used by this context manager? 

Something like:

```python
with dask_cluster(...) as cluster:
    import dask.array as da
    x = da.random.random((10000, 10000), chunks=(1000, 1000))
    y = x + x.T
    z = y[::2, 5000:].mean(axis=1)
    z.compute()
```

### Dask Gateway components:

- `address` : is the rest API that dask-gateway exposes for managing clusters
- `proxy_address` : is a secure TLS connection to a user defined dask scheduler
- `auth` : is the form of authentication used, which should always be jupyterhub for Nebari

Nebari already has the connection information pre-configured for the user.
In order to view configuration details run the below command:

- from the terminal : `cat /etc/dask/gateway.yaml`
- within a notebook: `! cat /etc/dask/gateway.yaml`

<details>
<summary> Click to view: Sample output </summary>

```shell
{"gateway":{"address":"http://qhub-dask-gateway-gateway-api.dev:8000","auth":{"type":"jupyterhub"},"proxy_address":"tcp://quansight.qhub.dev:8786","public_address":"https://quansight.qhub.dev/gateway"}}
```

</details>

### Starting a dask cluster on Nebari

We will start by creating a Jupyter notebook with name of your choice. Select `dask` environment from the select kernel dropdown (located on the top right)

Nebari has set of pre-defined options for configuring the dask profiles that we have access to. These can be accessed via Dask Gateway options.

> <details>
> <summary> Click to view: Dask profile options for Nebari </summary>
> 
> ```python
> profiles:
>   dask_worker:
>     "Small Worker":
>       worker_cores_limit: 1
>       worker_cores: 1
>       worker_memory_limit: 1G
>       worker_memory: 1G
>     "Medium Worker":
>       worker_cores_limit: 1.5
>       worker_cores: 1.25
>       worker_memory_limit: 2G
>       worker_memory: 2G
> ```
> 
> </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
id: dask-nebari-setup
title: Configuring Dask on Nebari
---

# Introduction to Dask

Working with large datasets can pose a few challenges, running into frequent memory issues is one. [Dask](https://docs.dask.org/en/stable/) is a free and `open-source` library for `parallel computing` in Python,
enabling data scientist and others to use their favorite PyData tools at scale.

> techniques.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</details>

**Calling dask client to get started**

```python

client = cluster.get_client()
client
```

<details>
<summary> Click to view sample output: Dask client </summary>

![dask client](/img/dask_client.png)

</details>

**Fun part, let's code with dask**

```python
import dask.array as da
x = da.random.random((10000, 10000), chunks=(1000, 1000))
y = x + x.T
z = y[::2, 5000:].mean(axis=1)
z.compute()
```

<details>
<summary> Click to view sample output: Dask compute </summary>

```shell
array([0.99628925, 0.99659686, 1.00412466, ..., 0.99887597, 1.00219302,
       1.0027488 ])
```

</details>

### Dask diagnostic UI

![dask diagnostic UI](/img/dask_diagostic_UI.png)

### Dask-labextension

[Dask-labextension](https://github.com/dask/dask-labextension) provides a JupyterLab extension to manage Dask clusters,
as well as embed Dask's dashboard plots directly into JupyterLab panes.
Nebari is pre-configured with the extension, elevating the overall developer experience.

![Dask-labextension](/img/dask_labextension.png)

:::note Recommendation
Wrapping the dask-gateway in a context manager (code below), is a great way to avoid having to write a ton of boilerplate,

> though it comes with an added benefit which ensures the cluster is fully shutdown once the task is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and comes with an added benefit that it ensures the cluster is fully shutdown once the task is complete.
```
